Pods are the smallest unit in the Kubernetes cluster.

But, What are they, really?
How are they constructed?
How do they end up on a worker node?

A simple anatomy of what we have running on a host looks as follows:
```
Rancher Desktop              <-- creates a VM that hosts Kubernetes cluster
	|__ Cluster 1
	|	|__ Control Plane
	|	|	|__ Api server          <-- receives commands from `kubectl`
	|	|	|__ Scheduler           <-- receives commands from the Api server
	|	|	|__ Etcd                <-- brain of the cluster
	|	|	|__ Controller manager  <-- the event loop of the cluster
	|	|
	|	|__ Worker Node 1
	|	|	|__ Pod 1
	|	|	|__ Pod 2
	|	|	...
	|	|
	|	|__ Worker Node 2
	|	...
	|
	|__ Cluster 2
	...
```

- `Rancher Desktop` provisions the cluster, and it is running directly on the host machine's OS.
- In `Rancher Desktop`'s Kubernetes preferences, we have the `Kubernetes Port` (set to `6443` by default). Well, this is the port for `Kubernetes Cluster`'s `Api server`.
- Let's see where is this used; If we check in `~/.kube/config` that `Rancher Desktop` set for us:
	- We will find a `rancher-desktop` cluster that has configurations for:
		- `cluster`
		- `user`
		- `context`
	- All of these form the `rancher-desktop` cluster.
	- Under the `cluster` config, we can see `server: https://127.0.0.1:6443`
	- This is basically the url for the cluster's `Api server` component that's part of the cluster's `Control Plane`
	- _Note: `~/.kube/config` can have configurations about multiple clusters each having its own context, so when we switch context through
	  `kubectl config set context <context-name>`, Kubernetes switches to the new cluster that could have a different `port` than `6443`, or a different ip address_
- So, when we run `kubectl run nginx --image nginx/nginx` what actually happens under the hood is that `kubectl` makes an http request to the cluster's `Api server` at `https://127.0.0.1:6443` for us to tell the cluster's `Control Plane` to spin up a new `Pod` running `nginx` container.
- When the cluster's `Api server` receives the request, it says: "okay, now I need to "schedule" a new pod". Well, we have a `Scheduler` already on our cluster's `Control Plane` 
- The `Scheduler` is responsible for taking these kind of requests and assigning them to `Worker Nodes`. So, the `Scheduler` takes requests from the `Api server` and makes an intelligent decision about which `Worker Node` the `Pod` will be run on. Some `Worker Nodes` are going to be full, and others will have more capacity (RAM, CPU, etc), and so on.
  _The ins and outs of the scheduler go deep and it can be configured to make these decisions in certain way, the CKA course of Mumshad on udemy goes deep into this_
- So in a nutshell, the `Scheduler`'s job is to assign `Pod`s to `Worker Node`s. And this is how -eventually- a `Pod` ends up on a `Worker Node`.
- This is what _"The `Pod` is the smallest deploy-able element on a cluster"_ means :)
- A `Pod` is not a container, it is a collection of containers, with other resources baked in.
- The name "Pod" comes from "Pod of Whales", so it means a group of whales swimming together, that is a pod, several whales form a "Pod".
  Likewise, several containers forma a `Pod`.
- So, there are different formations of `Pod`s:
	- Single-container `Pod`  <-- the most commonly used 
	- Multi-container `Pod`
- We can also have something called `Init-container` inside the `Pod` and we can use that to run certain processes before running the workload container, for example:
	- We can have an `Init-container` run inside a `Pod` before the application container to check for postgres database connection if it is successful or not, if not then the `Pod` can fail and no containers need to run
	- So, this is how we can for example do some conditional deployments
- In addition to containers, `Pods` also have `Networking` and `Stroreage` configured
  _These are what I meant by "...with other resources baked in" above_
- We can inspect a `Pod` by running `kubectl describe pods <pod-name>`, here we can check how many containers are running inside the `Pod`, what are the network and storage/volumes configurations.
- It is important to note that the storage/volumes in the case of Kubernetes are different from volumes in docker
  in Kubernetes, volumes are attached to the cluster, so multiple containers running inside can all access the same volumes