
Kubernetes is the OS of the cloud.

It is a bunch of VMs that are able to communicate properly with each other and divide their workload.

We have a main **Control Plane** and a number of **Worker Nodes**.

So, we say:
_"Hey, Kubernetes, I want 3 replicas of this docker image `linkding` (through a `yaml` configuration file)"_

The **Control Plane** (this is like the brains of the cluster) takes that request (from `yaml` file) and says, alright, I already have some **Worker Nodes** (these are the muscles that perform the workload) that I can:
- first check which ones have capacity to hold these replicas,
- then spin up 3 containers from the provided image accordingly

Contrast that with the _Pre-Kubernetes_ way of working, were instead of a bunch of VMs running and load-balanced through something like `HAProxy` in a `roundrobin` fashion. What we end up with is a system with multiple compute replicas that are very hard to make aware of one another.

This is the beauty of Kubernetes. We only describe a state in a `yaml` configuration file, then we tell it to do its thing, and it handles everything.
And the real power comes when we have a system that have a few hundreds of docker containers.

>So, we can think about it Kubernetes is _Declarative_,  Ansible-like systems are _Imperative_.

Kubernetes is an intelligent way of running container workloads at scale.

---

It is very important that I become fluent with the `kubectl` command, because this will make my life so much easier when taking `CKA` and `CKAD` exams.

Also, the Kubernetes documentation is so good, I need to spend some time exploring it and understanding more about Kubernetes.
